Now that we have reviewed Bayesian probability,
let's review two main types of uncertainty that we want to consider with our model.
Aleatoric uncertainty is otherwise known as
statistical uncertainty in our known unknowns.
This type of uncertainty is inherent in
just a part of the stochasticity that naturally exists.
Example is flipping a dice,
which will always have an element of randomness to it.
Epistemic uncertainty is also known as systemic uncertainty in our unknown unknowns.
This type of uncertainty can be improved by adding parameters or features that
might measure something in more detail or
provide more knowledge or also adding more data.
We will go over in more detail how to
use aleatoric uncertainty when we do the walk through.
Now onto the exciting part,
where we get to train a model to estimate uncertainty with TensorFlow Probability.
For this walkthrough, we'll use
the same MPG dataset that we have been using for this lesson.
Largely just add TensorFlow Probability layers to our model to convert it to a BNN.
Before we go into the walkthrough,
I want to note that TensorFlow Probability is not a V1 version yet,
and documentation in standard patterns are evolving.
That being said, I want to expose you to a tool that might be good to have on your radar.
For those of you that have worked with frameworks such as Stan,
this hopefully abstracts away some of
the challenging math behind the scenes to get things to work properly.
So for this walkthrough, as he mentioned,
we will use the MPG data and create uncertainty estimation model,
and we will focus on aleatoric uncertainty,
which we just went over previously,
which is known unknowns.
So I just want to highlight the two main changes to our network.
First, we will add a second unit to the last dense layer
before passing it to the TensorFlow probability layer in the model.
This will help us account for
the predictor y-value and also the unequal scattering of the data.
The second thing we'll do is we'll use
the DistributionLambda layer and we'll add the mean and standard deviation to this layer.
DistributionLambda is a special Keras layer
that takes a Python lambda function and creates
a distribution based on that layer and outputs that final layer into the loss function.
We will use this output from the model to
return a distribution for both the mean and standard deviation.
So let's go through actually the layers of a model and show you where this works.
So as I mentioned, we added an additional node
to a dense layer before we add it to our TensorFlow Probability layer.
Here, we can take this DistributionLambda layer
and add our normal distribution to this DistributionLambda layer.
Just to note, the loc and scale are just the mean and standard deviation.
We're largely just adapting from the TensorFlow probability tutorial.
However, you can definitely change
these values to see what might work best for your model.
One other thing to know is that we're using
a negative log likelihood function that we create here as our loss function.
You can see more details in the links I provide in the course for why we do this.
Wow, that was so convenient.
Just add those two layers and now we have
distributions for the mean and standard deviations for our predictions.
I'll go through the rest to show you exactly how this works.
So we trained a probability model very similar to how you would train a Keras model.
Then we will extract the mean and standard deviation output.
It's slightly different to note,
the difference is how we take the test values here and use
a dictionary and then pass that to the probabilistic model here.
So then we take y-hat and we
basically can pull out the mean and standard deviation distributions.
You can see here I took a sample of the first
10 for both the mean and standard deviation,
and then I put them into a DataFrame so you can see how
they relate to the predictions and actual value.
So you can see that the actual value and the predicted mean and standard deviations here.
Note that the mean prediction is much better,
and you can see in this graph that the performance better fits the label values.